"# garble\n\n\tGO111MODULE=on go get mvdan.cc/garble\n\nObfuscate Go code by wrapping the Go toolchain. Requires Go 1.15 or later, since\nGo 1.14 uses an entirely different object format.\n\n\tgarble build [build flags] [packages]\n\nSee `garble -h` for up to date usage information.\n\n### Purpose\n\nProduce a binary that works as well as a regular build, but that has as little\ninformation about the original source code as possible.\n\nThe tool is designed to be:\n\n* Coupled with `cmd/go`, to support both `GOPATH` and modules with ease\n* Deterministic and reproducible, given the same initial source code\n* Reversible given the original source, to un-garble panic stack traces\n\n### Mechanism\n\nThe tool wraps calls to the Go compiler and linker to transform the Go build, in\norder to:\n\n* Replace as many useful identifiers as possible with short base64 hashes\n* Replace package paths with short base64 hashes\n* Remove all [build](https://golang.org/pkg/runtime/#Version) and [module](https://golang.org/pkg/runtime/debug/#ReadBuildInfo) information\n* Strip filenames and shuffle position information\n* Strip debugging information and symbol tables\n* Obfuscate literals, if the `-literals` flag is given\n* Removes [extra information](#tiny-mode) if the `-tiny` flag is given\n\n### Options\n\nBy default, the tool garbles the packages under the current module. If not\nrunning in module mode, then only the main package is garbled. To specify what\npackages to garble, set `GOPRIVATE`, documented at `go help module-private`.\n\n### Caveats\n\nMost of these can improve with time and effort. The purpose of this section is\nto document the current shortcomings of this tool.\n\n* Build caching is not supported, so large projects will likely be slow to\n  build. See [golang/go#41145](https://github.com/golang/go/issues/41145).\n\n* Exported methods and fields are never garbled at the moment, since they could\n  be required by interfaces and reflection. This area is a work in progress.\n\n* Functions implemented outside Go, such as assembly, aren't garbled since we\n  currently only transform the input Go source.\n\n* Go plugins are not currently supported; see [#87](https://github.com/burrowers/garble/issues/87).\n\n### Tiny Mode\n\nWhen the `-tiny` flag is passed, extra information is stripped from the resulting \nGo binary. This includes line numbers, filenames, and code in the runtime the \nprints panics, fatal errors, and trace/debug info. All in all this can make binaries \n6-10% smaller in our testing.\n\nNote: if `-tiny` is passed, no panics, fatal errors will ever be printed, but they can\nstill be handled internally with `recover` as normal. In addition, the `GODEBUG` \nenvironmental variable will be ignored.\n"