"TempestSDR\n=============\n\nThis project is a software toolkit for remotely eavesdropping video monitors using a Software Defined Radio (SDR) receiver. It exploits compromising emanations from cables carrying video signals.\n\nRaster video is usually transmitted one line of pixels at a time, encoded as a varying current. This generates an electromagnetic wave that can be picked up by an SDR receiver. The software maps the received field strength of a pixel to a gray-scale shade in real-time. This forms a false colour estimate of the original video signal.\n\nThe toolkit uses unmodified off-the-shelf hardware which lowers the costs and increases mobility compared to existing solutions. It allows for additional post-processing which improves the signal-to-noise ratio. The attacker does not need to have prior knowledge about the target video display. All parameters such as resolution and refresh rate are estimated with the aid of the software. \n\nThe software consists of a library written in C, a collection of plug-ins for various Software Define Radio (SDR) front-ends and a Java based Graphical User Interface (GUI). It is a multi-platform application, with all native libraries pre-compiled and packed into a single Java jar file.\n\nRelease\n------------\n\n * [JTempestSDR.jar](https://raw.github.com/martinmarinov/TempestSDR/master/Release/JavaGUI/JTempestSDR.jar) is the self contained multi platform GUI executable. It should work with just a double click on most Windows/Ubuntu x86/x64 based machines.\n * [Download dlls] (https://github.com/martinmarinov/TempestSDR/tree/master/Release/dlls) contains the precompiled dll files for Linux/Windows x86/x64 which you can use in your own project under the GNU GPL license.\n\nDouble click on the JTempestSDR.jar file to launch. If it fails to launch, you will need to recompile the project.\n\n\nBuilding the executable\n------------\n\nThis is the Java wrapper and GUI. It builds all projects and supported plugins including the Java GUI itself. Go into the JavaGUI folder and type in\n\n    make all\n\nIf it fails to find \"jni.h\", you should run one of the following commands:\n\n    make all JAVA_HOME=path_to_jdk_installation\n\nOn Windows 8 x64 this could look like\n\n    make all JAVA_HOME=C:/PROGRA~2/Java/jdk1.7.0_45\n\t\nTo force compilation for X64 or X32 (in case your compiler supports it), do the following\n\n    make all JAVA_HOME=C:/PROGRA~2/Java/jdk1.7.0_45 ARCHNAME=X64\n\nOn Ubuntu with openjdk it could look like\n\n    make all JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-openjdk-amd64\n\nOn Mac OSX commmand might look like\n\n    make all JAVA_HOME=/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk1.8.0_111.jdk/Contents/Home\n\nNote: This will also compile the plugins. Some of them require additional libraries! You can disable the plugin compilation by editing the Makefile in JavaSDR.\n\n### Windows\n\nYou need to have MinGW installed.\n\nOn Windows, this will also build the SDRplay RSP plugin. You first need to install the SDR driver from http://www.sdrplay.com/\n\nExample of how to compile for x64 Windows\n\n    export PATH=$PATH:\"/cygdrive/C/Program Files/Java/jdk<put_your_version_here>/bin\"\n    make all JAVA_HOME=C:/PROGRA~1/Java/jdk<put_your_version_here> CC=x86_64-w64-mingw32-gcc ARCHNAME=X64\n\nAnd replace `<put_your_version_here>` with your JDK version.\n\nIf running SDRplay Plugin, make sure the mir_sdr_api.dll and sdrplay_api.dll are in the library path (or in the same directory as the executable).\nYou can find the dll in C:/Program Files/SDRplay/API/x86 or C:/Program Files/SDRplay/API/x64 depending on your architecture. \n\nIf you don't intend to use the RSP dongle, you can skip this step by editing the Makefile in the JavaGUI directory. Remove TSDRPlugin\\_SDRPlay from line 89, changing it from\n\n    PLUGINS += TSDRPlugin_SDRPlay TSDRPlugin_ExtIO\n\nto\n\n    PLUGINS += TSDRPlugin_ExtIO\n\n### Linux and OS X\n\nOn Linux and OS X, compiling the GUI will also compile the UHD driver, so you will need to have UHD and the corresponding boost libraries installed (UHD will install them automatically). If you don't want the UHD drivers, then you can skip their compilation by removing the line 91 for Linux and line 93 for OS X from the Makefile in the JavaGUI directory.\n\n\nBuilding the libraries\n------------\n\nAll project could be built both with Eclipse and make as well.\n\n### TempestSDR library\n\nEnter the folder and type\n\n    make all\n\t\nThis will produce the library which could be found in the bin subdir. The headers you need to interface with it are located in src/include.\n\n### Plugins\n\nGo into a plugin directory and type\n\n    make all\n\t\nThis should work unless there is something specific for the plugin itself. Look for a README in this case.\n\nFolder Structure\n------------\n\nThe different folders contain the different subprojects. The TempestSDR folder contains the main C library. The project aims to be crossplatform with plugin support for SDR frontends in different folders.\n\nRequirements for Building\n------------\n\nThe project is built with Eclipse with the CDT plugin (but this is not required). Currently it supports Windows, Linux and OS X. Some frontend plugins might not be crossplatform. You also need a Java Development Kit (JDK) installed.\n\n### Windows\n\nYou need to have MinGW installed and gcc and make commands need to be in your path. Also javac and javah also need to be in your path.\n\n### Linux\n\nTo be announced soon.\n\n\n"