"= ghq(1) image:https://github.com/x-motemen/ghq/workflows/test/badge.svg?branch=master[\"Build Status\", link=\"https://github.com/x-motemen/ghq/actions?workflow=test\"] image:https://coveralls.io/repos/motemen/ghq/badge.svg?branch=master[\"Coverage\", link=\"https://coveralls.io/r/motemen/ghq?branch=master\"]\n\n== NAME\n\nghq - Manage remote repository clones\n\n== DESCRIPTION\n\n'ghq' provides a way to organize remote repository clones, like +go get+ does. When you clone a remote repository by +ghq get+, ghq makes a directory under a specific root directory (by default +~/ghq+) using the remote repository URL's host and path.\n\n    $ ghq get https://github.com/x-motemen/ghq\n    # Runs `git clone https://github.com/x-motemen/ghq ~/ghq/github.com/x-motemen/ghq`\n\nYou can also list local repositories (+ghq list+).\n\n== SYNOPSIS\n\n[verse]\nghq get [-u] [-p] [--shallow] [--vcs <vcs>] [--look] [--silent] [--branch] [--no-recursive] <repository URL>|<host>/<user>/<project>|<user>/<project>|<project>\nghq list [-p] [-e] [<query>]\nghq create [--vcs <vcs>] <repository URL>|<host>/<user>/<project>|<user>/<project>|<project>\nghq root [--all]\n\n== COMMANDS\n\nget::\n    Clone a remote repository under ghq root directory (see\n    <<directory-structures,DIRECTORY STRUCTURES>> below). If the repository is\n    already cloned to local, nothing will happen unless '-u' ('--update')\n    flag is supplied, in which case the local repository is updated ('git pull --ff-only' eg.).\n    When you use '-p' option, the repository is cloned via SSH protocol. +\n    If there are multiple +ghq.root+ s, existing local clones are searched\n    first. Then a new repository clone is created under the primary root if\n    none is found. +\n    With '--shallow' option, a \"shallow clone\" will be performed (for Git\n    repositories only, 'git clone --depth 1 ...' eg.). Be careful that a\n    shallow-cloned repository cannot be pushed to remote.\n    Currently Git and Mercurial repositories are supported. +\n    With '--branch' option, you can clone the repository with specified\n    repository. This option is currently supported for Git, Mercurial,\n    Subversion and git-svn. +\n    The 'ghq' gets the git repository recursively by default. +\n    We can prevent it with '--no-recursive' option.\n\nlist::\n    List locally cloned repositories. If a query argument is given, only\n    repositories whose names contain that query text are listed. '-e'\n    ('--exact') forces the match to be an exact one (i.e. the query equals to\n    _project_, _user_/_project_ or _host_/_user_/_project_)\n    If '-p' ('--full-path') is given, the full paths to the repository root are\n    printed instead of relative ones.\n\nroot::\n    Prints repositories' root (i.e. `ghq.root`). Without '--all' option, the\n    primary one is shown.\n\ncreate::\n    Creates new repository.\n\n== CONFIGURATION\n\nConfiguration uses 'git-config' variables.\n\nghq.root::\n    The path to directory under which cloned repositories are placed. See\n    <<directory-structures,DIRECTORY STRUCTURES>> below. Defaults to +~/ghq+. +\n    This variable can have multiple values. If so, the last one becomes\n    primary one i.e. new repository clones are always created under it. You may\n    want to specify \"$GOPATH/src\" as a secondary root (environment variables\n    should be expanded.)\n\nghq.<url>.vcs::\n    ghq tries to detect the remote repository's VCS backend for non-\"github.com\"\n    repositories.  With this option you can explicitly specify the VCS for the\n    remote repository. The URL is matched against '<url>' using 'git config --get-urlmatch'. +\n    Accepted values are \"git\", \"github\" (an alias for \"git\"), \"subversion\",\n    \"svn\" (an alias for \"subversion\"), \"git-svn\", \"mercurial\", \"hg\" (an alias for \"mercurial\"),\n    \"darcs\", \"fossil\", \"bazaar\", and \"bzr\" (an alias for \"bazaar\"). +\n    To get this configuration variable effective, you will need Git 1.8.5 or higher.\n\nghq.<url>.root::\n    The \"ghq\" tries to detect the remote repository-specific root directory. With this option,\n    you can specify a repository-specific root directory instead of the common ghq root directory. +\n    The URL is matched against '<url>' using 'git config --get-urlmatch'.\n\n\n=== Example configuration (.gitconfig):\n\n....\n[ghq \"https://git.example.com/repos/\"]\nvcs = git\nroot = ~/myproj\n....\n\n== ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES\n\nGHQ_ROOT::\n    If set to a path, this value is used as the only root directory regardless\n    of other existing ghq.root settings.\n\n== [[directory-structures]]DIRECTORY STRUCTURES\n\nLocal repositories are placed under 'ghq.root' with named github.com/_user_/_repo_.\n\n....\n~/ghq\n|-- code.google.com/\n|   `-- p/\n|       `-- vim/\n`-- github.com/\n    |-- google/\n    |   `-- go-github/\n    |-- motemen/\n    |   `-- ghq/\n    `-- urfave/\n        `-- cli/\n....\n\n\n== [[installing]]INSTALLATION\n\n=== macOS\n\n----\nbrew install ghq\n----\n\n=== Void Linux\n\n----\nxbps-install -S ghq\n----\n\n=== Windows + scoop\n\n----\nscoop install ghq\n----\n\n\n=== go get\n\n----\ngo get github.com/x-motemen/ghq\n----\n\n=== conda\n\n----\nconda install -c conda-forge go-ghq\n----\n\n=== build\n\n----\ngit clone https://github.com/x-motemen/ghq .\nmake install\n----\n\nBuilt binaries are available from GitHub Releases.\nhttps://github.com/x-motemen/ghq/releases\n\n== HANDBOOK\n\nYou can buy \"ghq-handbook\" from Leanpub for more detailed usage.\n\nhttps://leanpub.com/ghq-handbook (Currently Japanese Only)\n\nThe source Markdown files of this book are also available for free from the following repository.\n\nhttps://github.com/Songmu/ghq-handbook\n\n== AUTHOR\n\n* motemen <motemen@gmail.com>\n** https://github.com/sponsors/motemen\n* Songmu <y.songmu@gmail.com>\n** https://github.com/sponsors/Songmu\n"